---
title: Quick start
excerpt: A quick start guide for PipelineCloud.
category: 61e45a1d89450a00615c0d77
---

The first step in using the PipelineCloud is signing up, which you can do here on the dashboard: [dashboard.pipeline.ai](https://dashboard.pipeline.ai).

# Contents

- [Create a token](#create-a-token)
- [Your first run](#your-first-run)

# Create a token

As the PipelineCloud operates as an API you will need to generate an API token that registers all requests to your account. This includes requests that are generated by you on the dashboard.
[block:callout]
{
"type": "info",
"title": "Note",
"body": "Every account has a 'Base' token which is used in the background for general account access. This token does not have full permission over your PipelineCloud account, and should not ever be used directly."
}
[/block]

To create an API token you must navigate to **"/Settings/API tokens"** as demonstrated below.
You can also set the timeout and other access properties (read/write) for the token. The default expiry date is 8 days from creation.

[block:image]
{
"images": [
{
"image": [
"https://i.imgur.com/35kH5L2.gif",
"token-create.gif",
1636,
994,
"#e2e2e3"
]
}
]
}
[/block]

[block:callout]
{
"type": "danger",
"title": "Warning",
"body": "Your API tokens can directly edit most of PipelineCloud objects and account when given write access, treat them with care!"
}
[/block]

# Your first run

To perform your first run we will be using the PipelineLibrary to run a Pipeline. Here's the installation guide for the library: [installation guide](https://docs.pipeline.ai/docs/getting_started).

Here's an example pipeline that we'll be using (NOTE: remember to input your token correctly):

```python
from pipeline import Pipeline, Variable, pipeline_function, PipelineCloud

api = PipelineCloud(token="...")

@pipeline_function
def multiply(a: float, b: float) -> float:
    return a * b


with Pipeline("MathsIsFun") as builder:
    # Define the inputs used to feed data into the pipeline
    flt_1 = Variable(float, is_input=True)
    flt_2 = Variable(float, is_input=True)
    # Add the variables to the pipeline
    builder.add_variables(flt_1, flt_2)

    # Perform a computation on the inputs
    multiply_result = multiply(flt_1, flt_2)

    # Use the computation output as the output for the whole pipeline
    builder.output(multiply_result)

maths_pipeline = Pipeline.get_pipeline("MathsIsFun")

# Send to PipelineCloud and run
uploaded_pipeline = api.upload_pipeline(maths_pipeline)
result = api.run_pipeline(uploaded_pipeline, [5.0, 6.0])

print(result)
```

On the dashboard you will see several updates now. Breaking down the above code snippet we see the following things happening:

1. Creation of a function (`multiply`)
2. Creation of a pipeline (`MathsIsFun`)
3. Uploading of steps 1+2 to PipelineCloud
4. A run called on the `MathsIsFun` pipeline remotely

We can break down the API interactions in the final lines of code into the following based on points 3-4 (NOTE: most of the following points happen behind the scenes in the PipelineLibrary):

1. We upload a function
2. We upload the pipeline computation graph, referencing 1. (the uploaded function)
3. We upload the array `[5.0, 6.0]` as a data object
4. We call a run on the pipeline referencing the data object from 3. as the input data
5. We recieve the output of the run and print
